BONES, JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS

To understand the hand we’ll begin by looking at the bones and joints. Then we’ll
look at some important pulleys, and then we’ll see the muscles. After that we’ll
add the vessels and nerves, and lastly we’ll look at the skin. 

The terms that we’ll use for orientation are ulnar and radial for the sides of the
hand, radial being the side with the thumb, and palmar and dorsal, for the front
and the back.


To begin looking at the bones and joints of the hand, lets see what they’re called.
Here are the eight carpal bones, and here are the five metacarpals. Each finger
has a proximal phalanx, a middle phalanx, and a distal phalanx. The thumb just
has two phalanges, a proximal phalanx and a distal phalanx.

The joints of the hand have long names. The joints between the carpus and the
metacarpals are the carpometacarpal joints. The joints between the metacarpals
and the proximal phalanges are the metacarpo-phalangeal joints.
01.12
The joints between the phalanges are the interphalangeal joints - proximal and
distal. We’ll often refer to these joints as CMC joints, MP joints, and IP joints, for
short.

To look in some detail at the bones and joints of the hand, we’ll look first at the
carpus, then at the four fingers with their metacarpals, then at the thumb with its
metacarpal.

We saw he individual names of the carpal bones in theprevious section. Let’s look
at their overall shape. There are two bony projections on each side. On the ulnar
side , the pisiform bone and this part of the hamate called the hook. On the radial
side, the tubercle of the scaphoid and the crest of the trapezium. With these
projections the bones of the carpus form the base and side walls of a space called
the carpal tunnel.

Here’s how the carpus looks in the living body. The radiocarpal, and mid-carpal
joints are hidden by their heavy capsular ligaments. Here are those four
projections again, the tubercle of the scaphoid, the crest of the trapezium, the
pisiform, and the hook of the hamate. And here’s the carpal tunnel, still without its
roof.

Now let’s move on to look at the metacarpals of the four fingers, and at their CMC
joints. Here are the carpometacarpal joints. The bases of the four finger
metacarpals, tightly packed together, articulate here, with the distal row of carpal
bones. The base of the first metacarpal, the one for the thumb, articulates
separately here, with the trapezium.

These four carpometacarpal joints allow only a small amount of movement. The
fifth metacarpal is the most mobile, the fourth is less so, the third hardly moves at




骨  关节  和  韧带

  为了了解手部我们开始先观察骨头和关节，接着我们再观察一些重要的滑车结构，之后观察肌肉。

再介绍血管和神经。最后是皮肤



  对于方位术语，我们将手部的方向分为尺侧和桡侧，桡侧就是靠近大拇指的那边，还有掌侧和背侧，就是所谓的前面和背面



  在开始观察手的骨和关节之前，让我们先学习他们的名称，这儿是8块腕骨，和5块掌骨，每个

手指有近端指骨，中节指骨，和远端指骨。大拇指仅有二个指骨，近端指骨和远端指骨。



  手部的关节有很长的名字。腕骨和掌骨之间的关节称之为腕掌关节。掌骨和近节指骨之间的的关节称之为掌指关节，

手指之间的关节称之为指间关节，近端指间关节和远端指间关节我们经常把这些关节简称为 CMC关节 MP关节 IP关节。



  为了观察手部的骨和关节的一些细节，我们将首先从腕骨开始，接着是四个手指的掌骨，之后是拇指的掌骨。



  在前面章节我们学习了每个腕骨各自的名称，让我们看看他们整体的形状，在每一侧有二个突起，尺侧有豌豆

骨的突起和钩骨的一部分突起称之钩。桡侧有舟状骨的结节和头状骨的冠状突，由于有了这些腕骨突起的结构

形成腕骨隧道空间的了基底和侧边 。



背诵 记忆 红色的 英文单词

首先 学习手部  手部 有 骨 关节 韧带 肌肉 滑车  前面 后面 尺侧 桡侧 方位 

自己观察一下你自己的手  由近到远    腕骨  掌骨  指骨 指骨分为 近 中 远 






